# python-api-challenge

## Background
"What is the weather like as we approach the equator?"

Through the Jupyter notebook, WeatherPy.ipynb, we will explore this question.
We start pulling weather data from 500+ randomly selected cities, Clean the data and then plot selected weather qualities vs the latitude of the city.

We will also explore "ideal" weather conditions and plot 10 hotels that fall within 5000km of a city that holds the specified weather conditions.


## Setup
Github repository path: https://github.com/joshmartin33/python-api-challenge.git

Clone github repository to your computer.

## Folder/Files

[python-api-challenge] - Main folder to hold all resources needed to run the task

   * [README.md] - Readme file
   * [WeatherPy.ipynb] - The Jupyter Notebook to compare weather data by latitude
   * [VacationPy.ipynb] - The Jupyter Notebook to show google heatmap and pins of ideal weather locations
   * [output_data_file] - Folder to house the csv files needed to be processed
        - [cities.csv] - csv file that has been created from WeatherPy.ipynb
    * [Images] - Folder to house the output images
        - [VacationPy] - Folder to house the output images from VacationPy.ipynb
            * [heatmap.png]
            * [hotel_map.png]
        - [WeatherPy] - Folder to house the output images from WeatherPy.ipynb
            * [Latitude_vs_Cloudiness_Plot.png]
            * [Latitude_vs_Humidity_Plot.png]
            * [Latitude_vs_Temperature_Plot.png]
            * [Latitude_vs_Wind_Speed_Plot.png]
            * [Northen_Hemisphere_Latitude_vs_Cloudiness_Plot.png]
            * [Northen_Hemisphere_Latitude_vs_Humidity_Plot.png]
            * [Northen_Hemisphere_Latitude_vs_Max_Temp_Plot.png]
            * [Northen_Hemisphere_Latitude_vs_Wind_Speed_Plot.png]
            * [Southern_Hemisphere_Latitude_vs_Cloudiness_Plot.png]
            * [Southern_Hemisphere_Latitude_vs_Humidity_Plot.png]
            * [Southern_Hemisphere_Latitude_vs_Max_Temp_Plot.png]
            * [Southern_Hemisphere_Latitude_vs_Wind_Speed_Plot.png]

# WeatherPy.ipynb

## Instructions

1. Create a python file called api_keys.py and save it in the folder "python-api-challenge".

2. Within the api_keys.py copy and paste the code below. 

```
# OpenWeatherMap API Key
weather_api_key = "ENTER YOUR KEY HERE" 

# Google API Key
g_key = "ENTER YOUR KEY HERE"
```

3. Enter in your API keys for OpenWeatherMap and Google.

4. Locate file called WeatherPy.ipynb found in folder "python-api-challenge"

5. Open WeatherPy.ipynb in any application that can run a Jupyter notebook.

6. Refresh and clear the kernal. Click on "Run all"

Results will be saved as csv file 'cities.csv' and .png's files located in 'Images/WeatherPy'


# VacationPy.ipynb

## Instructions

1. Ensure your API key for Google is saved in api_keys.py 

4. Locate file called VacationPy.ipynb found in folder "python-api-challenge"

5. Open VacationPy.ipynb in any application that can run a Jupyter notebook.

6. Refresh and clear the kernal. Click on "Run all"

Results will be displayed within the Jupyter Notebook.


References
Data generated by Mockaroo (Links to an external site.), LLC (2022). Realistic Data Generator.